YNU-354: Protocol Docs (#69)
layer-3/docs: docs/protocol/off-chain/queries.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Query Methods & Notifications
---

import Tooltip from '@site/src/components/Tooltip';

# Query Methods & Notifications

Query methods retrieve information from <Tooltip content="A virtual ledger layer that provides a unified ledger (through Nitro RPC) and coordinates state channels (through Nitrolite), providing chain abstraction for developers and users">a clearnode</Tooltip>, while notifications provide real-time updates about <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip> changes.

---

## Overview

The Nitro RPC protocol provides two types of information retrieval:

**Query Methods**: Client-initiated requests to retrieve current <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip> information (balances, channels, sessions, transactions).

> **Notifications**: Server-initiated messages sent via WebSocket when events occur (balance changes, <Tooltip content="A secure communication pathway between participants that locks funds in an on-chain smart contract while enabling off-chain state updates">channel</Tooltip> updates, incoming transfers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Notifications**: Server-initiated messages sent to all relevant active connections when events occur (balance changes, <Tooltip content="A secure communication pathway between participants that locks funds in an on-chain smart contract while enabling off-chain state updates">channel</Tooltip> updates, incoming transfers).
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| `get_channels` | Public/Private | List payment channels | No |
| `get_app_sessions` | Private | List app sessions | Yes |
| `get_balance` | Private | Query current balances | No |
| `get_ledger_entries` | Private | Detailed accounting entries | Yes |
| `get_ledger_transactions` | Private | User-facing transaction history | Yes |
| `get_user_tag` | Private | Retrieve user's alphanumeric tag | No |
| `get_session_keys` | Private | List active session keys | No |
| `ping` | Public | Connection health check | No |

:::info Authentication
**Public methods** can be called without authentication. **Private methods** require completing the [authentication flow](./authentication) first.
:::

---

## get_config

### Name

`get_config`

### Usage

Retrieves <Tooltip content="A virtual ledger layer that provides a unified ledger (through Nitro RPC) and coordinates state channels (through Nitrolite), providing chain abstraction for developers and users">the clearnode's</Tooltip> configuration including supported blockchains, protocol versions, challenge periods, and operational parameters.

### Request

No parameters required (empty object `{}`).

> ### Response

Reviewer: Currently the response has the following structure:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L536-L553

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| Parameter | Type | Description | Structure | Example |
|-----------|------|-------------|-----------|---------|
| `broker_address` | string | Clearnode's primary address | - | `"0xClearnode123..."` |
| `supported_chains` | array\<ChainConfig\> | List of supported blockchain networks<br/><br/>**Structure per chain**:<br/>• `chain_id` (number) - Network identifier (e.g., 1 for Ethereum)<br/>• `name` (string) - Network name<br/>• `rpc_url` (string) - RPC endpoint<br/>• `contracts` (object) - Deployed contract addresses | See structure | - |
| `protocol_versions` | array\<string\> | Supported Nitro RPC versions | - | `["NitroRPC/0.2", "NitroRPC/0.4"]` |
| `features` | object | Enabled features and capabilities | - | `{"app_sessions": true, "cross_chain": true, "max_session_duration": 86400}` |

**Use Cases**:
- Verify clearnode capabilities before connecting
- Discover supported chains and assets

> - Check protocol version compatibility

Reviewer: Currently no

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

---

## get_assets

### Name

`get_assets`

### Usage

Retrieves all supported assets and their configurations across supported blockchains.

### Request

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Example | Notes |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|---------|-------|
| `chain_id` | uint64 | No | Filter by specific chain | `137` | If omitted, returns assets for all chains |

### Response

| Parameter | Type | Description | Structure | Example |
|-----------|------|-------------|-----------|---------|

> | `assets` | array\<AssetConfig\> | List of supported assets<br/><br/>**Structure per asset**:<br/>• `symbol` (string) - Asset symbol<br/>• `name` (string) - Full asset name<br/>• `decimals` (uint8) - Token decimals<br/>• `chains` (array\<ChainDeployment\>) - Deployed addresses per chain<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Structure per deployment:<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;▪ `chain_id` (number) - Network identifier<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;▪ `token_address` (string) - Contract address on this chain | See structure | symbol: `"USDC"`<br/>name: `"USD Coin"`<br/>decimals: `6`<br/>chains: `[{"chain_id": 1, "token_address": "0xA0b8..."}, {"chain_id": 137, "token_address": "0x2791..."}]` |

Reviewer: Asset has the following structure:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L560-L569

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

**Use Cases**:
- Display supported assets in UI
- Validate asset identifiers before transfers
- Get contract addresses for specific chains

---

## get_channels

### Name

`get_channels`

### Usage

Lists all channels for a specific <Tooltip content="An entity (identified by a wallet address) that is part of a channel">participant</Tooltip> address across all supported chains.

> ### Request

Reviewer: It also has ListOptions:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L507-L514

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Default | Allowed Values | Example |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|---------|----------------|---------|

> | `address` | string | No | Address to query | Authenticated user | - | `"0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb"` |

Reviewer: Here should be `participant`

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| `status` | string | No | Filter by status | - | "active" \| "closed" \| "disputed" | `"active"` |

> | `chain_id` | uint64 | No | Filter by chain | - | - | `137` |

Reviewer: Currently there is no such filter

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

> ### Response

Reviewer: The format is a bit different for the Channel:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L666-L693

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Usage

Lists all <Tooltip content="Off-chain channels built on top of payment channels, intended to be used by app developers to enable application-specific interactions and transactions without touching the blockchain">app sessions</Tooltip> for a <Tooltip content="An entity (identified by a wallet address) that is part of a channel">participant</Tooltip>, sorted by creation date (newest first by default). Optionally filter by status (open/closed). Returns complete session information including <Tooltip content="An entity (identified by a wallet address) that is part of a channel">participants</Tooltip>, governance configuration, protocol version, and current <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip>. Supports pagination for large result sets.

### Request

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Default | Allowed Values | Example |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|---------|----------------|---------|
| `participant` | string (address) | No | Filter by participant wallet address | Authenticated user's address | - | `"0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb"` |

> | `status` | string | No | Filter by status | - | "open" \| "closed" | `"open"` |

Reviewer: Would be good to add to allowed values `challenged` and `resizing`

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| `offset` | number | No | Pagination offset | 0 | - | `42` |
| `limit` | number | No | Number of sessions to return | 100 | - | `10` |
| `sort` | string | No | Sort order by created_at | "desc" | "asc" \| "desc" | `"desc"` |

> ### Response

Reviewer: Currently the response has the following format:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L182-L184

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| `protocol` | string | Protocol version | `"NitroRPC/0.4"` |
| `challenge` | uint64 | Challenge period in seconds | `86400` |
| `version` | number | Current state version | `5` |
| `nonce` | uint64 | Unique session identifier | `1699123456789` |
| `session_data` | string | Current application state | `"{\"gameType\":\"chess\",\"turn\":\"white\"}"` |
| `created_at` | string (timestamp) | Creation timestamp | `"2023-05-01T12:00:00Z"` |
| `updated_at` | string (timestamp) | Last update timestamp | `"2023-05-01T14:30:00Z"` |
| `closed_at` | string (timestamp) | Closure timestamp (optional, only if closed) | `"2023-05-01T16:00:00Z"` |

**Use Cases**:
- Display user's active games or escrows
- Monitor session history
- Paginate through large session lists

:::tip Pagination Best Practice
When dealing with users who have many <Tooltip content="Off-chain channels built on top of payment channels, intended to be used by app developers to enable application-specific interactions and transactions without touching the blockchain">app sessions</Tooltip>, use pagination with reasonable `limit` values (10-50) to improve performance and user experience.
:::

---

> ## get_balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## get_ledger_balances
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Name

> `get_balance` (also known as `get_ledger_balances`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`get_ledger_balances`
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Usage

> Retrieves the current balance for an account. If no parameters are provided, returns the authenticated user's <Tooltip content="An abstraction that aggregates a user's funds across multiple blockchain networks, managed by Clearnode">unified balance</Tooltip> across all assets. Can also query balance within a specific <Tooltip content="Off-chain channels built on top of payment channels, intended to be used by app developers to enable application-specific interactions and transactions without touching the blockchain">app session</Tooltip> by providing the app_session_id. Returns all assets with non-zero balances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves ledger balances for an account. If no parameters are provided, returns the authenticated user's <Tooltip content="An abstraction that aggregates a user's funds across multiple blockchain networks, managed by Clearnode">unified balance</Tooltip> across all assets. Can also query balance within a specific <Tooltip content="Off-chain channels built on top of payment channels, intended to be used by app developers to enable application-specific interactions and transactions without touching the blockchain">app session</Tooltip> by providing the app_session_id. Returns all assets with non-zero balances.
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Request

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Format | Example | Notes |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|--------|---------|-------|
| `account_id` | string | No | Account or app session identifier | 0x-prefixed hex string or wallet address | `"0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb"` | For app session balance, use app_session_id |

> | `participant` | string (address) | No (deprecated) | Legacy parameter, use account_id instead | - | `"0x742d35Cc..."` | - |

Reviewer: No need to mention it

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Response

| Parameter | Type | Description | Structure | Example |
|-----------|------|-------------|-----------|---------|

> | `ledger_balances` | array\<Balance\> | Balance per asset<br/><br/>**Structure per balance**:<br/>• `asset` (string) - Asset identifier<br/>• `amount` (string) - Balance in human-readable format<br/>• `available` (string, optional) - Available balance (if unified balance query)<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Note: Excludes funds locked in app sessions<br/>• `locked` (string, optional) - Funds locked in app sessions | See structure | `[{"asset": "usdc", "amount": "100.0", "available": "75.0", "locked": "25.0"}, {"asset": "eth", "amount": "0.5", "available": "0.5", "locked": "0.0"}]` |

Reviewer: It doesn't have `available` and `locked` fields

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

**Balance Components**:

```
Total Balance = Available + Locked

Available: Can be transferred or used for new app sessions
Locked: Currently in active app sessions

> ```

Reviewer: No need to mention it here

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

**Use Cases**:

> - Display user's current balance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Display user's current balances
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| `limit` | number | No | Number of entries to return | 100 | - | - |
| `sort` | string | No | Sort order by created_at | "desc" | "asc" \| "desc" | - |

### Response

| Parameter | Type | Description | Structure | Example |
|-----------|------|-------------|-----------|---------|
| `ledger_entries` | array\<LedgerEntry\> | List of ledger entries<br/><br/>**Structure per entry**:<br/>• `id` (number) - Unique entry identifier<br/>• `account_id` (string) - Account this entry belongs to<br/>• `account_type` (number) - Type of account<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Values: 0 (wallet), 1 (app session), 2 (channel)<br/>• `asset` (string) - Asset identifier<br/>• `participant` (string address) - Participant wallet address<br/>• `credit` (string) - Credit amount (incoming funds)<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Note: "0.0" if this is a debit entry<br/>• `debit` (string) - Debit amount (outgoing funds)<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Note: "0.0" if this is a credit entry<br/>• `created_at` (string timestamp) - Entry creation timestamp | See structure | id: `123`<br/>account_id: `"0x742d35Cc..."`<br/>asset: `"usdc"`<br/>credit: `"100.0"`<br/>debit: `"25.0"`<br/>created_at: `"2023-05-01T12:00:00Z"` |

> | `metadata` | object | Pagination metadata (optional)<br/><br/>**Structure**:<br/>• `page` (number)<br/>• `per_page` (number)<br/>• `total_count` (number)<br/>• `page_count` (number) | See structure | - |

Reviewer: There is no such field

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Request

| Parameter | Type | Required | Description | Default | Allowed Values | Example |
|-----------|------|----------|-------------|---------|----------------|---------|
| `account_id` | string | No | Filter by account identifier | - | - | `"0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb"` |
| `asset` | string | No | Filter by asset | - | - | `"usdc"` |
| `tx_type` | string | No | Filter by transaction type | - | "transfer" \| "deposit" \| "withdrawal" \| "app_deposit" \| "app_withdrawal" | `"transfer"` |
| `offset` | number | No | Pagination offset | 0 | - | - |
| `limit` | number | No | Number of transactions to return | 100 | - | - |
| `sort` | string | No | Sort order by created_at | "desc" | "asc" \| "desc" | - |

### Response

| Parameter | Type | Description | Structure | Example |
|-----------|------|-------------|-----------|---------|

> | `ledger_transactions` | array\<Transaction\> | List of transactions<br/><br/>**Structure per transaction**:<br/>• `id` (string) - Unique transaction identifier<br/>• `tx_type` (string) - Transaction type<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Values: "transfer" \| "deposit" \| "withdrawal" \| "app_deposit" \| "app_withdrawal"<br/>• `from_account` (string address) - Sender wallet address<br/>• `from_account_tag` (string) - Sender's user tag (if any)<br/>&nbsp;&nbsp;- Note: Empty for non-user accounts<br/>• `to_account` (string address) - Receiver wallet address<br/>• `to_account_tag` (string) - Receiver's user tag (if any)<br/>• `asset` (string) - Asset identifier<br/>• `amount` (string) - Transaction amount<br/>• `note` (string, optional) - Transaction memo/note<br/>• `created_at` (string timestamp) - Transaction timestamp | See structure | id: `"txn_123456"`<br/>tx_type: `"transfer"`<br/>from_account: `"0x742d35Cc..."`<br/>from_account_tag: `"NQKO7C"`<br/>to_account: `"0x8B3192f2..."`<br/>to_account_tag: `"UX123D"`<br/>asset: `"usdc"`<br/>amount: `"50.0"`<br/>note: `"Payment for services"`<br/>created_at: `"2023-05-01T12:00:00Z"` |

Reviewer: Currently there is no such field as `note`

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

> | `metadata` | object | Pagination metadata (optional) | - | - |

Reviewer: There is no such field

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

> ### Transaction Types

Reviewer: Also, there are `escrow_lock` and `escrow_unlock` tx types

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Authentication

Required (private method)

### Request

No parameters required (empty object `{}`).

### Response

| Parameter | Type | Description | See Also |
|-----------|------|-------------|----------|
| `session_keys` | array\<SessionKeyInfo\> | List of active session keys | [↓ SessionKeyInfo](#sessionkeyinfo) |

#### SessionKeyInfo {#sessionkeyinfo}

| Field | Type | Description | Default | Notes |
|-------|------|-------------|---------|-------|
| `id` | number | Internal identifier | — | — |
| `session_key` | string (address) | Session key address | — | — |
| `application` | string | Application name for this session | `"clearnode"` | — |
| `allowances` | array\<Allowance\> | Spending limits and usage | — | See [Allowance](#allowance-structure) below |
| `scope` | string | Permission scope | — | Future feature, not fully enforced yet |

> | `expire` | string (timestamp) | Session expiration time | — | — |

Reviewer 2: This is a bit outdated. Now expires_at is used - please check current docs/API.md

Author: done

Author: [2407a50f77b866e3cddc84621a441c69e6787515>](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/2407a50f77b866e3cddc84621a441c69e6787515)

| `created_at` | string (timestamp) | Session creation time | — | — |

**Example**:
```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "session_key": "0x9876543210fedcba...",
  "application": "Chess Game",
  "allowances": [
    {"asset": "usdc", "allowance": "100.0", "used": "45.0", "remaining": "55.0"}
  ],
  "scope": "app.create,transfer",
  "expire": "2023-05-02T12:00:00Z",
  "created_at": "2023-05-01T12:00:00Z"
}
```

#### Allowance {#allowance-structure}

| Field | Type | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| `asset` | string | Asset identifier (e.g., `"usdc"`) |
| `allowance` | string | Total spending limit |
| `used` | string | Amount already spent |

> | `remaining` | string | Remaining allowance (computed: `allowance - used`) |

Reviewer: there is no such field

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

:::

**Use Cases**:
- Display active sessions in UI
- Monitor spending against caps
- Manage session lifecycles
- Security auditing

---

## ping

### Name

`ping`

### Usage

Simple connectivity check to verify <Tooltip content="A virtual ledger layer that provides a unified ledger (through Nitro RPC) and coordinates state channels (through Nitrolite), providing chain abstraction for developers and users">the clearnode</Tooltip> is responsive and the WebSocket connection is alive. Returns immediately with success. Used for heartbeat, connection testing, and latency measurement.

### Authentication

Not required (public method)

### Request

No parameters required (empty object `{}`).

> ### Response

Reviewer: The response is different as well, but you can mention that response's method should be `pong`

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

// If no auth error, session is active
```

---

## Notifications (Server-to-Client)

<Tooltip content="A virtual ledger layer that provides a unified ledger (through Nitro RPC) and coordinates state channels (through Nitrolite), providing chain abstraction for developers and users">The clearnode</Tooltip> sends unsolicited notifications to clients via WebSocket when certain events occur. These are not responses to requests, but asynchronous messages initiated by the server.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    box rgb(225,245,255) Client
        participant Client
    end
    box rgb(255,225,245) Clearnode
        participant Clearnode
    end
    box rgb(255,245,225) Events
        participant Event as Event Source
    end

    Note over Client,Clearnode: WebSocket Connection Established

    Event->>Clearnode: Transfer received
    Clearnode->>Client: transfer_received notification

    Event->>Clearnode: Balance changed
    Clearnode->>Client: balance_update notification

    Event->>Clearnode: Channel opened
    Clearnode->>Client: channel_update notification

    Event->>Clearnode: App session updated
    Clearnode->>Client: app_session_update notification

```

> ### Notification Types

Reviewer: `bu`, `cu`, `tr` and `asu`

Reviewer: For the response structure refer to this code snippet:
https://github.com/erc7824/nitrolite/blob/c708013f7bb2436f2ff7112be5e58f2d6058d79d/clearnode/pkg/rpc/api.go#L471-L500

Also, please ensure structure format is presented in tables

Reviewer 2: Make sure that other docs reference the proper names for notifications instead of `balance_update`/`channel_update`/`transfer_received`. (search for these keys and replace)

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

| Event | Trigger | Data Included |
|-------|---------|---------------|
| `balance_update` | Balance changes | Address, balances, trigger reason |
| `channel_update` | Channel status changes | Channel ID, status, chain ID |

> | `transfer_received` | Incoming transfer | Transaction ID, from, amount, note |

Reviewer: Outcoming as well

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

### Structure

```javascript
{
  event: "app_session_update"
  data: {
    app_session_id: string
      Description: Session identifier
      Example: "0x9876543210fedcba..."
      
    version: number
      Description: New state version
      Example: 5
      
    status: string
      Description: Session status
      Values: "open" | "closed"
      Example: "open"
      
    intent: string (optional)
      Description: Update intent (if applicable)
      Values: "operate" | "deposit" | "withdraw"
      Example: "operate"
      
    timestamp: number
      Description: Event timestamp
      Example: 1699123456789
  }
}
```

**Use Cases**:
- Update game UI when opponent makes a move
- Refresh session <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip> in real-time
- Alert when session is closed
- Sync multi-participant applications

---

## Implementation Notes

**Connection Management**:

> - Maintain persistent WebSocket connection for notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maintain persistent connection for notifications
```

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)

- Implement automatic reconnection on disconnect
- Re-fetch current <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip> after reconnection

**Notification Handling**:
- All notifications are asynchronous
- No response required from client
- Multiple notifications may arrive rapidly (batch if needed)

**Best Practices**:
- Use query methods for initial <Tooltip content="A snapshot of the channel at a point in time, including fund allocations and application-specific data">state</Tooltip> retrieval
- Use notifications for ongoing monitoring
- Don't rely solely on notifications (could be missed during disconnect)
- Implement periodic state refresh as backup

**Pagination**:
- For methods with pagination, use reasonable `limit` values

> - Store `metadata.total_count` for progress indicators

Reviewer: remove

Author: [0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c](https://github.com/layer-3/docs/pull/69/commits/0880b232fc0664a8d7397ccc53bc2b46314cf73c)
